1906: Grace Brewster Murray was born to Walter Fletcher Murray (Yale B.A. 1894, Phi Beta Kappa) and Mary Campbell Van Horne in New York City. 
1928: she graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Vassar College with degrees in mathematics and physics.
1930: Hopper received her master’s degree in mathematics from Yale.
1931: she began teaching mathematics at Vassar while pursuing her doctorate at Yale under computer pioneer Howard Engstrom.
1934: she completed her Ph.D. in mathematics and mathematical physics from Yale. During a one-year sabbatical from Vassar, Hopper studied with the famous mathematician Richard Courant at New York University.
1943: Taking a leave of absence from Vassar, where she was an associate professor, Hopper joined the U.S. Naval Reserve (Women’s Reserve) and assigned  to the Bureau of Ships Computation Project at Harvard University. There she worked for Howard Aiken, another computer pioneer, who had developed the IBM Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculator, better known as the Mark I, one of the earliest electromechanical computers. One of the first three computer “programmers,” Hopper was responsible for programming the Mark I and punching machine instructions onto tape. She also wrote the 561-page user manual for the Mark I.
1945: After the war Hopper turned down a full professorship at Vassar in order to remain at Harvard, becoming a research fellow in engineering sciences and applied physics. During this time she helped develop the Mark II and Mark III computers as Harvard continued to receive funding contracts from the Navy. One evening in 1945 while working on the Mark II, Hopper and her colleagues encountered a problem. They took the machine apart and found a large moth. Although the term “bug” had been used by engineers since the 19th century to describe a mechanical malfunction, Hopper was the first to refer to a computer problem as a “bug” and to speak of “debugging” a computer.
1946: Hopper left active service when the Navy turned down her request for a regular commission because of her age. Shortly thereafter Hopper left Harvard when it became clear she would not be promoted or granted tenure. 
1949: she joined the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation in Philadelphia as senior mathematician. The company, which was soon acquired by Remington Rand, had developed the first electronic computer (the ENIAC) under army contracts.
1952:  her programming team developed the first computer language “compiler” called A-0. Compilers translated mathematical code into machine-readable binary code, and they would eventually make it possible to write programs for multiple computers rather than a single machine. Next her team developed Flow-Matic, the first programming language to use English-like commands. Unlike earlier computer languages such as FORTRAN, which used mathematical symbols, Flow-Matic used regular English words. Hopper felt that data processors, who were not typically mathematicians or engineers, would be more comfortable using word-based languages.
1959: In 1959 COBOL (short for “common business-oriented language”) was introduced as the first standardized general business computer language. Although many people contributed to the “invention” of COBOL, Hopper promoted the language and its adoption by both military and private-sector users.  In 1959 Hopper was a visiting and then adjunct lecturer at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania.
1971 -1978: From 1971 to 1978 she served as a professorial lecturer in management sciences at George Washington University. Outside of academia, she organized myriad workshops and conferences to promote understanding of programming and expand the community of computer programmers. Throughout her time at Eckert-Mauchly and its successor companies she also continued to teach a seminar. In accepting the National Medal of Technology, Hopper said, “If you ask me what accomplishment I’m most proud of, the answer would be all the young people I’ve trained over the years; that’s more important than writing the first compiler. 
1972: she received Yale’s Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal. 
1977 -1986:  she was “the Navy’s foremost propagandist for its computer program as …  [its] representative to learned societies, industry associations, and technical symposia.”7 In the last years of her life she did similar work in public relations for the Digital Equipment Corporation.
1991: President George Bush awarded Hopper the National Medal of Technology, the nation’s highest technology award; she was the first woman to be so honored as an individual.
1992: 1992. she went to work as a senior consultant in public relations at the Digital Equipment Corporation, where she worked up until a year before her death in 1992. Hopper was buried with full military honors in Arlington National Cemetery. 
1996: the Navy commissioned the U.S.S. Hopper, a guided missile destroyer. Kurt Beyer, author of “Grace Hopper and the Invention of the Information Age,” suggests that Hopper achieved so much attention and even “celebrity” late in life because a Republican Congressman from Illinois saw an interview with Hopper on “60 Minutes” in 1983. After seeing the interview he successfully introduced a bill to have Hopper promoted to the rank of commodore.
2016:  Hopper posthumously received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor, in recognition of her remarkable contributions to the field of computer science.
